# 7-Zip

[7-Zip](https://www.7-zip.org/) is a free open source, cross-platform, powerful, and fully-featured file archiver with a high compression ratio, for Windows. It has a powerful command line version that has been ported to Linux/POSIX systems.

It has a high compression ratio in 7z format with LZMA and LZMA2 compression, supports many other archive formats such as XZ, BZIP2, GZIP, TAR, ZIP and WIM for both packing and unpacking; AR, RAR, MBR, EXT, NTFS, FAT, GPT, HFS, ISO, RPM, LZMA, UEFI, Z, and many others for extracting only.

It provides strong AES-256 encryption in 7z and ZIP formats, offers a compression ratio that of 2-10 % for ZIP and GZIP formats (much better than those offered by PKZip and WinZip). It also comes with self-extracting capability for 7z format and it’s localized in up-to 87 languages.

## Install 7zip on Debian, Ubuntu or Linux Mint.  

More information [here](https://www.7-zip.org/download.html).

Install:
    sudo apt install p7zip-full p7zip-rar

Uninstall: 

    sudo apt remove p7zip-full -y
    sudo apt remove p7zip -y

## Install 7zip on MacOS (using Homebrew)

    brew install p7zip

For more information, click [here](https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/p7zip).

## 7zip Command Examples

1. To create an .7z archive file, use "a" option. The supported archive formats for creation are 7z, XZ, GZIP, TAR, ZIP and BZIP2. If the given archive file exists already, it will “add” the files to an existing archive, instead of overwriting it.
    ```
    7z a hyper.7z hyper_1.4.2_i386.deb
    ```

2. To extract an .7z archive file, use "e" option, which will extract the archive in the present working directory.
    ```
    7z e hyper.7z
    ```

3. To select an archive format, use -t (format name) option, which will allows you to select the archive format such as zip, gzip, bzip2 or tar (the default is 7z):
    ```
    7z a -tzip hyper.zip hyper_1.4.2_i386.deb
    ```

4. To see a list of files in an archive, use "l" (list) function, which will displays the type of archive format, method used, files in the archive among other information as shown.
    ```
    7z l hyper.7z
    ```

5. To test the integrity of an archive file, use "t" (test) function as shown.
    ```
    7z t hyper.7z
    ```

6. To backup a directory, you should use the 7za utility which preserves owner/group of a file, unlike 7z, the -si option enables reading of files from stdin.

    ```
    tar -cf - tecmint_files | 7za a -si tecmint_files.tar.7z
    ```

7. To restore a backup, use -so option, which will sends output to stdout.
    ```
    7za x -so tecmint_files.tar.7z | tar xf -
    ```

8. To set a compression level, use the -mx option as shown.

    ```
    tar -cf - tecmint_files | 7za a -si -mx=9 tecmint_files.tar.7z
    ```

9. To update an existing archive file or remove file(s) from an archive file, use "u" and "d" options, respectively.

    ```
    7z u <archive-filename> <list-of-files-to-update>
    7z d <archive-filename> <list-of-files-to-delete>
    ```

10. To set a password to an archive file, use -p {password_here} flag as shown.

    ```
    $ 7za a -p{password_here} tecmint_secrets.tar.7z
    ```

For more information refer to the 7z man page, or go to the 7zip Homepage: https://www.7-zip.org/.
